1. WAP to perform add, mul, division, of two number .Also find quotient
2. WAP to find remainder when a number is divided by z.
3. Check the type of variable assigned using input() fucnction
4. Use comparision operator to find out whwther a given variable is greater than b
5. WAP to find average of thwo number
6. WAP to calculate square of a number enterd by user
7. Program to take temperature in Celcius from the user and convert it into fahernhite
8. Program to calculate Simple intrest and total amount using principal, rate and time entered by the user
9. Program to take distance in kilometer and convert it into meters, centimeters and millimeters
10. Program to ask the the user for radius and calculate area and circumfrence of a circle
11. Write a python program to take a base number x and an exponenet y as input and calcultae x raise to power y
12. Program to convert total minutes into hours and remaining minutes
13. Program to find the sum of digits of a two-digit number
14. Program to calculate the number of ₹500 and ₹100 notes required
15. Swap two numbers 
16. Swap two numbers without third variablem 
17. Initialize a variable balance = 1000. Perform operations using shorthand operators like +=, -=, *=, /= and print the updated balance after eavh operation balance = 1000
18. 18. Write a Python program to take age as input and print True if age is between 18 and 60, otherwise print False.
19. Write a Python program to take marks of three subjects out of 100. Print True if the student scored at least 40 in all three subjects and average marks at least 50.
20. Write a Python program to take an integor and print True if the number is even and False if the number is odd.
21. write a Python program to take input from the user without typecasting and multiply it by 3. Then typecast the same input to int and multiply it by 3. Print both results to show thw difference.
22. Program to take student details like name, roll numer and hostel status from user. Typecast them into appropriate types and print them along with their detected type
23. Write a program to display a user entered name followed by "Good Afternoon" using input().
24. Write a python program to fill the given letter template with name and date 
    letter = """
            Dear <Name>
            You are selected
            <Date>
        """
25. Write a python program to detect double space in string
26. Write a python program to replace double spaces from problem 3 with single space
27. Write a python program to format the following letter using escape sequence characters
    letter = "Dear Saurabh, this python course is nice. Thanks!"
28. Write a python program to take a student full name and display
    . Total number of characters, last characters, first character, Name in uppercase
29. Write a python program to take a student name and roll number , then generarte a user name using the first 3 letters of the name and lst 2 digit of the roll number
30. Write a python program to take an email address and print the domain name
31. Write a python program to check whether an email ends with mietjammu.in
32. Write a python program to take a 10 digit mobile number and display only the last 4 digit. Replace the first 6 digit with ********
33. Write a Python program to take a word and count the number of vowels a, e, i, o, u.
34. Write a Python program to take a sentence and replace all spaces with underscores.
35. Write a Python program to take a sentence, detect double spaces, and replace them with single spaces.
36. Write a Python program to take a word and print it in reverse order using slicing. Also check whether it is the same forward and backward.
37. Write a Python program to take first name and last name and print initials.
38. Write a Python program to take a word and print every second character.
39. Write a Python program to take a password and check whether it contains @ and has at least 8 characters.
40. Write a Python program to take a string and separate characters present at even index positions and odd index positions. 
41. Take an email address and check whether it contains @ and .com. 
42. Take a sentence containing double spaces and unwanted spaces at the beginning or end. Clean the sentence.
43. Take student full name and roll number. Generate email using first 3 letters of first name, first 3 letters of last name, and last 3 characters of roll number.43
44. Take roll number like 2024A1R057 and extract admission year, program code, and roll number digits using slicing.43
45. Take an email address and print username, domain, and reversed domain.43
46. Take name, branch, and year. Generate a code name using string concatenation, slicing, and repetition.43
47. Take a password and check length, presence of @, and whether first and last characters are different.
48. Take a password and check length , presence of @ and whether first and last character are different
49. Write a Python program to determine whether a student is eligible for a scholarship.
    The scholarship should be granted if the student satisfies either of the following conditions:
    a) The student has a CGPA of 8.5 or above and attendance of 85 percent or above.
    b) The student has won a national-level competition.
    The program should take CGPA, attendance percentage, and national-level competition status as input,
     then display whether the student is eligible for the scholarship.
50. Write a Python program to simulate a digital lock system. The lock should ask the user to enter a 4-digit PIN. If the entered PIN does not contain exactly 4 digits, the program should display an error message and ask again. 
    If the entered PIN is correct, the lock should open. Otherwise, the program should ask the user to try again
51. Write a Python program to calculate the final bill amount after applying a discount. The program should take the total bill amount as input from
    the user and apply the discount according to the following rules:
    Bill Amount        Discount
    Above 5000         20 percent
    3000 to 5000       10 percent
    Below 3000         No discount
    After calculating the discount, display the discount amount and the
    final bill amount payable by the customer.
52. Write a Python program to create a simple password validation system.The program should repeatedly ask the user to enter a password until a valid password 
    is entered. A password is considered valid only if it hasat least 8 characters and contains the @ symbol.
    Once the user enters a valid password, display "Password accepted." and
    stop. Otherwise, display "Weak password. Try again." and ask again.
53.Write a Python program to input marks of 5 students.
    For each student, check whether the entered marks are valid or invalid.
    Marks are considered valid only if they are between 0 and 100.
    If the marks are invalid, display "Invalid marks skipped" and move to
    the next student without printing those marks.
    If the marks are valid, display the marks as valid.
54. Write a Python program to input four numbers from the user and find the greatest number among them.
55. 7. Write a Python program to detect whether a comment is spam or not. A comment should be treated as spam if it contains 
    any of these keywords: "make a lot of money", "buy now", "subscribe this", or "click this".
56. Write a Python program that asks the user to enter a username and password. The user should get only 3 attempts. 
    If the correct credentials are entered, display "Login Successful" and stop the loop. If all attempts are used, display "Account Locked"
57. Write a Python program to input a number and check whether it is prime or not. A number is prime if it has no divisor other than 1 and itself.
58. Write a Python program to input two numbers and find their greatest common divisor using a loop.
59. Write a Python program to check whether a number is a perfect number. 
    A number is perfect if the sum of its proper divisors is equal to the number itself.
60. Write a Python program to input a number and reverse it using arithmetic operations only. 
61. Write a Python program to input a decimal number and convert it into binary without using the built-in bin() function.
62. Write a Python program to print numbers from 1 to 50, but skip all numbers divisible by 4
63. Write a Python program to repeatedly calculate the sum of digits of a number until the result becomes a single digit.
    Example: 9875 ->9+8+7+5 = 29 -> 2+9= 11 -> 1+ 1 = 2 
64. Write a python program to print the following pattern for n rows:
    """
    1
    1 2
    1 2 3
    1 2 3 4
    1 2 3 4 5
    """
65. Write a python program to pirnt a square pattern of stars for n rows and n columns.
66. Write a python program to print right angled triangle pattern of stars for n rows.
67. Write a python program to print an inverted right angled triangle pattern of stars for n rows.
68. Write a python program to print floyd's triangle.
69. Write a program to print a centered pyramid using stars. 
